---
title: Issues with memory sizing algorithm on large systems
date: 2024-6-11
tags: ['6.2', '6.2.3-r2']
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Large-scale systems with many interfaces are not able to activate all interfaces

<!-- truncate -->

**Issue ID:** I95-54838  
**Last Updated:** 2024-06-11  
**Introduced in SSR Version:** 6.2.3

### Problem

Large systems with multiple numa locations and many interfaces configured may not initialize the configured interfaces. This results in a `MemoryAllocationException` in the `Device Disabled Error Reason` section of the `show device-interface detail` command output. Currently known systems exhibiting this issue are the **Dell 7515** and **AWS c5.18xlarge** deployed on AMD CPU’s. This issue is under investigation and will be resolved in a future release.

### Release Notes

### Severity
<details>
The potential impact of a software defect if encountered. Severity levels are:
* Critical: Could severely affect service, capacity/traffic, and maintenance capabilities. May have a prolonged impact to the entire system.
* Major: Could seriously affect system operation, maintenance, administration and related tasks.
* Minor: Would not significantly impair the functioning or affect service.
</details>
Minor

### Status
Open

### Resolved In

### Product
SSR 

### Functional Area
Memory Sizing

### Workaround
<details>
Juniper may provide a method to temporarily circumvent a problem; workarounds do not exist for all issues.
</details>
Reduce the number of configured SSR interfaces.