---
title: Deprecate support for dh2 (modp1024) and dh22 IPSec algorithms
date: 2024-12-12
tags: ['ipsce-client']
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

To implement IPsec, SSR leverages a third-party client called `libreswan`. The client periodically deprecates weak algorithms from its code base such as dh2 (a.k.a `modp1024`) and dh22. While the SSR supports these algorithms, it is very likely that these algorithms will be deprecated in the near future. The article is meant to raise awareness of this upcoming change and provide steps to remediate the configuration.

<!-- truncate -->

**Issue ID:** PLUGIN-2835.

**Last Updated:** 2024-12-12

### Problem

When upgrading to a version of IPsec plugin with the weak ciphers removed, SSR will stop offering these ciphers in its IPsec negotiation with the far end. As a result, the tunnel connection will break and will not be able to be formed again. You can verify this break in the following ways.

1. Check the output of the `show plugin state` command to inspect the status of the tunnel:
```
========================================
 combo-west:rem1
========================================
 Type:                host
 Forwarding:          true
 Mode:                host
 MAC Address:         76:78:79:fc:eb:69

 Admin Status:        up
 Operational Status:  down
 Redundancy Status:   non-redundant
 Speed:               0
 Duplex:              unknown

 in-octets:                     1962932
 in-unicast-pkts:                 32710
 in-errors:                           0
 out-octets:                    1373442
 out-unicast-pkts:                32701
 out-errors:                          6

 IPSec:
     rem1:
         Tunnel Status:Down
         Tunnel Details:
             Name:    ipsec-client-tunnel-primary-rem1
             Remote Host:172.16.4.3
         Down Reason: Tunnel settings mismatch
```

The above output shows the `Tunnel Status: Down`. Because the SSR no longer uses the weak ciphers, a `Tunnel settings mismatch` is identified as the cause.

2. In the `128t-ipsec@*` service, the log indicates the following:

```
received unauthenticated v2N_NO_PROPOSAL_CHOSEN - ignored
```

Please see the [Solution](#solution) for remediation steps.

### Severity
<details>
The potential impact of a software defect if encountered. Severity levels are:

* Critical: Could severely affect service, capacity/traffic, and maintenance capabilities. May have a prolonged impact to the entire system.
* Major: Could seriously affect system operation, maintenance, administration and related tasks.
* Minor: Would not significantly impair the functioning or affect service.
</details>
Minor

### Status
In Progress

### Resolved In
128T-ipsce-client-4.1.0

### Product
SSR Routers

### Functional Area
IPsec

### Solution
<details>
Juniper may provide a method to temporarily circumvent a problem; workarounds do not exist for all issues.
</details>

Starting with the 128T-ipsec-client-4.1.0 version of the plugin, two changes are being made to support this remediation effort.

1. A new warning message has been added for conifgurations that rely on `dh2` and `dh22` algorithms. The warning message is visible when running `validate` or `commit` on the conductor.

2. Existing versions of IPsec plugin only support configuration specifying a single combination of IKE and IPsec algorithms. Beginning with `128T-ipsec-client-4.1.0`, support has been added to allow multiple ciphers to be configured for IKE and IPsec. The following is an example configuration:

```config {11-22}
    ipsec-profile primary
        name primary
        ike-encryption           aes256
        ike-digest               sha2
        ike-modp                 modp1024
        authentication-protocol  esp
        phase2-encryption        aes_gcm128
        phase2-digest            sha2
        phase2-modp              modp1024
        ...
        additional-ike-algorithms algo1
            name algo1
            encryption aes128
            digest sha2
            modp modp2048
        exit
        additional-ike-algorithms algo2
            name algo2
            encryption aes256
            digest sha2
            modp dh19
        exit
    exit
```

The two solutions to remediate the weak algorithms are:

1. While running the existing plugin version, replace the weak cipher with a stronger one from the supported list. **(where can they find the list?)**

 - Chose a new stronger cipher supported by the server.

 - Replace the weak cipher with the stronger cipher selected from the list.
    
 - Restart the **service/SSR/tunnels??**

This config change will need a restart of the tunnels for new connections to be formed.

2. Upgrade to the IPsec plugin version `4.1.0` and configure additional supported ciphers on the server side

 The SSR offers all the supported ciphers and identifies the ciphers supported on the server. It is recommended to remove the weak ciphers from the configuration once replacements have been made.

Remediating the configuration of weak ciphers ahead of their deprecation allows a seamless transition when upgrading to a new version of SSR software.


