---
title: Memory Allocation Exception in Device Disabled Error output
date: 2024-6-25
tags: ['6.2', '6.2.3-r2']
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Large systems with multiple CPU's and many interfaces configured may not initialize the configured interfaces.

<!-- truncate -->

**Issue ID:** I95-54838  
**Last Updated:** 2024-06-25  
**Introduced in SSR Version:** 6.2.3

### Problem

Large systems with multiple CPU's and many interfaces configured may not initialize the configured interfaces. A large system in this context is one with a core count greater than 30, and more than 10 interfaces. These systems may not initialize the configured interfaces, resulting in a `MemoryAllocationException` in the `Device Disabled Error Reason` section of the `show device-interface detail` command output. 

Currently known systems exhibiting this issue are the **SSR1500**, **Dell 7515**, and **AWS c5.18xlarge**. This issue is under investigation and will be resolved in a future release.

### Release Notes


### Severity
<details>
The potential impact of a software defect if encountered. Severity levels are:
* Critical: Could severely affect service, capacity/traffic, and maintenance capabilities. May have a prolonged impact to the entire system.
* Major: Could seriously affect system operation, maintenance, administration and related tasks.
* Minor: Would not significantly impair the functioning or affect service.
</details>
Major

### Status
Open

### Resolved In

### Product
AWS SSR Third-party

### Functional Area
Interface Binding

### Workaround
<details>
Juniper may provide a method to temporarily circumvent a problem; workarounds do not exist for all issues.
</details>

- **SSR1500:** Configure 8 or less interfaces.
- **Dell R7515:** With hugepages of 31G, configure no more than 4 interfaces. With hugepages of 58G, configure no more that 8 interfaces.

