---
title: High Memory Usage for IDP on SSR-130
date: 2025-01-31
tags: ['6.3.3-r2']
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

For non-multicore platforms, the default IDP engine behavior has changed to fully utilize its maximum memory threshold on startup, resulting in a significant overall system memory increase upon upgrading to version 6.3.3-r2.

<!-- truncate -->

**Issue ID:** I95-60089

**Last Updated:** 2025-01-31

**Introduced in SSR Version:** 6.3.3-r2

### Problem
When IDP is enabled on devices that do not utilize hugepages (SSR-120, SSR-130, SSR-1200), the `srxpfe` application will allocate memory from the system OS on startup. It is known that on the SSR-130, this can result in high memory alarms and potentially degrade the performance of some control processes.

The IDP engine on SSR-130 will use an additional 2GB on startup (increasing from 1GB to 3GB) and will retain this usage until disabled.

### Recommendation
It is recommended to avoid upgrading to version 6.3.3-r2 if you are using IDP and the device is an SSR-130 until the issue can be resolved.

### Release Notes
N/A

### Severity
<details>
The potential impact of a software defect if encountered. Severity levels are:
* Critical: Could severely affect service, capacity/traffic, and maintenance capabilities. May have a prolonged impact to the entire system.
* Major: Could seriously affect system operation, maintenance, administration and related tasks.
* Minor: Would not significantly impair the functioning or affect service.
</details>
Critical

### Status
In Progress

### Resolved In
N/A

### Product
SSR

### Functional Area
System Health
