---
title: Downloading ISOs
sidebar_label: Downloading ISOs
---

## Introduction

Currently 128 Technology makes available to its customers 2 ISOs for each software release:

1. **One Touch ISO (OTP) ISO**
   This ISO sets up DHCP on all interfaces and boots a Web Server GUI into which a URL generated by a conductor can be pasted (the one touch) in order to bootstrap router-to-conductor connectivity and the subsequent installation and configuration of the router by the conductor.
2. **Interactive ISO**
   Installing from this ISO is done via a serial console or VGA. An interactive session is started which allows network interfaces, passwords, node name and type, conductor IP (if applicable) before the 128T software is started.

## Downloading the ISOs

128 Technology ISOs are available to anyone with an active client certificate from our public yum servers located at: `https://yum.128technology.com/isos`

Your client certificate should have been provided to you via email and installed on your 128 Technology routers in order for them to download software updates from our yum servers.

### Downloading from the command line

The ISO installation media is hosted on the same location as the 128T software packages, albeit in a different location.  The easiest means of acquiring the ISO is to use the `curl` command while specifying the certificate obtained from 128 Technology with a valid software license.

```
curl -O --cert /etc/pki/128technology/release.pem https://yum.128technology.com/isos/128T-OTP-4.2.4-1.el7.x86_64.iso
```

##### Verifying Install Media

Each ISO file created by 128 Technology, Inc. has an accompanying checksum to ensure that the image has not been tampered with. The checksum file contains all the checksums for all hosted ISOs. The name of the checksum file is sha256sum.txt.

```
curl -O --cert /etc/pki/128technology/release.pem https://yum.128technology.com/isos/sha256sum.txt
```

To verify the checksum, use sha256sum (Linux) or shasum (Macintosh), or the checksum tool of your choice:

```
sha256sum -c sha256sum.txt 128T-OTP-4.2.4-1.el7.x86_64.iso 2>&1 | grep OK
```

The output of the command should produce the result

```
128T-OTP-4.2.4-1.el7.x86_64.iso: OK
```

If the checksum validation fails, reattempt the download. If the error message persists after multiple attempts, please contact 128 Technology, Inc. immediately.