---
title: SSR 6.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: '6.1'
---
:::info
Issues resolved in a release are merged into subsequent releases chronologically AND numerically.

If you do not see an issue listed below, it may have been resolved in another recently released version. A link to the Release Notes for the most recent chronological release of SSR Software is provided.

Alternatively, refer to the **[List of Releases](about_releases.mdx)** page for release dates and links to all SSR Release Notes; or, if you know the Issue ID Number, enter that into the Search field at the top right of this page.
:::

### Upgrade Considerations

:::important
Before upgrading please review the [**Upgrade Considerations**](intro_upgrade_considerations.md) and the [**Rolling Back Software**](intro_rollback.md) pages. Several modifications have been made to the process for verifying configurations, which will impact existing configurations.
:::

- **I95-43243/IN-460 Upgrade and Rollback:** Upgrading or rolling back a system (conductor peer or router) with the interactive installer `install128t`, that is managed by a conductor may result in the system becoming unresponsive. It is highly recommended that upgrades be performed through the conductor UI. Manual upgrades and rollbacks may not be resilient to failures. See [Rolling Back Software](intro_rollback.md) for more information on these operations.
------
- **I95-42452 Conductor Upgrade Time:** Upgrades to version 5.4 and above can take up to 40 minutes due to the number of rpms being upgraded. Please plan accordingly.
------
- **I95-42624 Upgrade Installer:** Before **upgrading to, or installing** version 5.4 and above, update the Installer to at least version 3.1.0. Failing to upgrade the installer may result in a rollback failure, should a rollback be necessary at any time. The Installer typically prompts you update when a new version is available. Select **Update** when prompted.
------
- **Plugin Upgrades:** If you are running with plugins, updates are required for some plugins **before** upgrading the conductor to SSR version 5.4.0 or higher. Please review the [Plugin Configuration Generation Changes](intro_upgrade_considerations.md#plugin-configuration-generation-changes) for additional information.

:::note
The Juniper SSR team does not publicly disclose known or resolved CVEs in our public documentation but instead utilizes our internal bug tracking IDs. Customers can obtain the actual CVE numbers by contacting Juniper Support.
:::

## Release 6.1.0-R1

**Release Date:** March 31, 2023

### New Features

- **I95-21086 Traceroute:** Traceroute is implemented as a troubleshooting tool, allowing you to debug connectivity from point to point. For more information, see [Traceroute.](ts_traceroute.md)
------
- **I95-38746 [`show arp [<verbosity>]`](cli_reference.md#show-arp):** Added the `<verbosity>` subcommand to provide additional information, including time to next refresh (ms), retry count (if expired), and time of last resolved ARP.
------
- **I95-41728 Session Recovery Detection:** `session recovery detection` provides an effective monitoring method for session recovery. When `inactivity-based detection` is enabled, the originating node monitors activity on the flow, and takes action if no activity is detected for a specified time. For additional information, see [Session Recovery Detection.](config_session_recovery.md)
------
- **I95-42282 Highlight errors in Template:** Highlighting has been added for errors found in a template, making it easier to find.
------
- **I95-42483 STEP Diagnostics in GUI:** 
------
- **I95-44456 Support for DHCP vendor options:**
------
- **I95-45652 ZTP Support for SSR1x00 platforms:**
------
- **I95-47136/MIST-62741 Settings for WAN Link Speed and Duplex (Mist-managed):** With this update, the auto-negotiation, disable, and speed/duplex settings are visible in Mist.
------
- **I95-47259 Session Setup Scaling:** The [`session-setup-scaling`](config_reference_guide.md#session-setup-scaling) feature improves the session setup rate by enabling multi-threaded processing. 
------
- **I95-49825 BFD Overlay over SVR** In deployments where the number of SVR sessions between SSRs are limited due to carrier settings, the established BFD channel is leveraged to encapsulate SVR sessions. For details about using this feature, see [BFD Overlay over SVR.](config_bfd_tunnel.md)
------
- **I95-50160 A new global configuration option** Enables the generation of additional BGP service-routes for creating mesh connectivity between all clients of a route reflector.

### Resolved Issues

- **The following CVE's have been identified and addressed in this release:** I95-46020, I95-48448, I95-48455, I95-48458, I95-48859, I95-49456, I95-50358, I95-359, I95-50506, I95-50508, I95-50523. 
------
- **I95-36758 Redistributed service route distance not configurable:** Support has been added for the configuration of admin distance for kernel routes generated by services with service routes and for BGP over SVR services.
------
- **I95-37833 Weak Password Policy.** New restrictions on password properties have been added to ensure strong passwords.
------
- **I95-40130 Factory Defaults for Conductor Communication:** Added SaltStack, Conductor, and IKE default session-types. For new deployments, SIP, SIPS, and IPSEC-NAT use NAT Keep Alive by default, and the timeout for IPSEC-NAT is 125 seconds.
------
- **I95-40904 Power save mode not working:** Add a method to read current power saver mode setting from existing config before committing the new configuration, and changing the setting.
------
- **I95-41992 Warning for Rate-Limit with Flow-Limit values at 0:** A warning has been added to advise users that this will cause dropped packets.
------
- **I95-43239 LTE APN on Modem not set up correctly:** The APN is now always written to the the modem using the default index of 1.
------
- **I95-43779 DHCP IP Address is not released:** Updated the state machine to cause DHCP-enabled interfaces to send out a DHCP Request for their current IP address.
------
- **I95-44142 Automated Provisioner race condition:** Resolved a rare crash where applications would attempt to get information about already-closed sockets when responding to API requests.
------
- **I95-44443 NTP Server config not always picked up:** Resolved an issue where NTP configuration was changed but the backend would not take action on those changes.
------
- **I95-44722 Time series HMAC failures after rebooting node in HA router:** Device interfaces are flushed upon becoming active to avoid handling of packets which have been delayed due to inactivity.
------
- **I95-44757 Quickstart validation error when quickstarting a conductor:** The quickstart validation process no longer requires an IP address when quickstarting a conductor.
------
- **I95-44769 Add Linux system logs to the Tech Support Information data:** This patch allows for customizations of the systemd journal content included in the `tech-support-info` bundle, and includes additional default content.
------
- **I95-44988 SSR Stuck in Upgrade status:** Improved logging to detect when an installer session is started and there is an already an active interactive installer session; for example when an interactive installer session was left open.
------
- **I95-45063 SSR azure instances unstable on large machine types:** Resolved an unpgrade issue causing instability in Azure instances using Mellanox5.
------
- **I95-45113 snmp override of the IfTable:** An issue with SNMP reporting has been resolved.
------
- **I95-45146 GUI error message for users authenticated by LDAP to Active Directory Server:** This issue has been resolved.
------
- **I95-45162 Improve download/upgrade error message if a router name does not exist:** In situations where a router does not exist, the download and upgrade message now indicates that the router does not exist.
------
- **I95-45164 `show-active-peers` missing some information:** Resolved a corner case where an RFC-compliant device ahead of a non-compliant device with a smaller MTU, the SSR misinterprets the non-compliant device's timeouts and the MTU will be unresolvable.
------
- **I95-45220 Conductor local forwarding parameters not dynamic:** Resolved an issue when transitioning a conductor from standalone to HA the managed routers were not automatically connecting to the newly added conductor node.
------
- **I95-45348 Update salt master and minion to 3002.8:** This update resolves several CVE's and requires that the conductor must be running this release containing these fixes **before** upgrading a router. 
**Important** Please see the Caveat below for additional important information about HA upgrades.
------
- **I95-45489 `ifcfg` custom options issues:** Resolved an issue where  interface ifcfg option changes were not being processed.
------
- **I95-45541 LDAP users are unable to login to the PCLI due to permission errors:** This issue has been resolved.
------
- **I95-45559 Corrupted resolv.conf after ODM imaging:** Resolved an issue on SSR systems running dns-proxy services with external interfaces configured using PEERDNS=yes, where a race condition may occur that results in corrupt nameservers being added to the /etc/resolv.conf file.
------
- **I95-45641 Stuck BGPoSVR Sessions after Failover:** Made changes to provide updates to less specific FIB entries when routes are updated to resolve this issue.
------
- **I95-45643 User created users missing after upgrade:** Resolved an issue where the XML values true/false are also handled as 1/0.
------
- **I95-45814 No Bandwidth statistics visible in GUI:** Resolved an issue when processing high numbers of services and service routes which prevented a subset of stats from being stored and displayed.
------
- **I95-45882 Rare case where an invalid DHCP server configuration generated:** This issue has been resolved.
------
- **I95-46169 RIB Doesn't Update Connected Route After Changing Network Interface Address Prefix from /24 to /27:** Resolved an issue when changing the prefix length for a network interface address, the RIB was not updated and routing protocols were not aware of the change.
------
- **I95-46230 Highway Crash:** Resolved an issue where uncaught exceptions were causing highway issues.
------
- **I95-46419 Forward Error Correction (FEC) with OutBound Only Fails:** Resolved an issue where FEC actions are not installed properly after the modifcation to resolve the outbound only path.
------
- **I95-47362 Monitor Secure Communication Manager:** Implement a watchdog for the SSH tunnels maintained by SCM. If the watchdog detects a dead connection, it will:
A) if the connection is a critical one, restart the 128T service, or
B) if the connection is not critical, terminate the application that owns the dead connection. If this fails, it will then attempt to restart the 128T service.
------
- **I95-47662 Switch to only using VFIO when binding devices for DPDK:** The SSR now uses VFIO to bind devices to DPDK, providing better support for NICs. 
------
 - **i95-47750 DHCP client interface info not listed in "show dhcp v4 detail" pcli command output:** The software now expects redundant interfaces with a non-zero vlan to have the vlan at the end of the line, after the list of comma-separated interfaces.
 ------
 - **I95-48274 Mixed IDP policy causes traffic to fail:** When a tenant is configured with an IDP policy enabled, and shares a service with another tenant that does not have IDP enabled, all traffic was being steered through the IDP. This issue has been resolved; the SSR now will automatically split the service into a maximum of 4 idpPolicy services; `alert`, `strict`, `standard`, and `none` to allow the correct handling of traffic. 
 ------
 - **I95-48571 IDP topology improvements in the GUI:** The SSR now includes the auto-generated IDP mode if enabled as a part of `show idp application status`. Additionally, enabling `hub` mode will not result in engine bring-up errors.
 ------
 - **I95-49340 Crash when the unexpected input of tenant-prefixes with no source-addresses is committed:** Restricting the tenant-prefixes's source-addresses to a minimum of one has resolved this issue.
 ------
- **I95-49604 No alarm raised when a node is disconnected from the internal synchronization database:** When nodes are unable to connect to the internal synchronization database, a critical alarm is now raised.
------
- **I95-49675 Incorrect path in console help message for `export config running`:** The help message now correctly identifies the export path: `Exported files are stored in /etc/128technology/config-exports/ and are stored as GZIP compressed files.`
------
- **I95-49913 Some Login/Logout Events not logged in Audit Logs:** A new function has been added to create an event to process USER_LOGOUT audit messages. 
------
- **I95-49925 Issue monitoring GRE IP:** The GRE tunnel manager now removes all sessions before adding new ones rather than modifying the existing sessions. 
------
- **I95-50047 Conductor config unable to pass local validation on one of the routers:** Resolved an issue where a router missing the `reachability-profile` configuration may pass validation on conductor.
------
- **I95-50247 Duplicate peer path alarms:** Resolved an issue where both BFD and the path MTU feature were generating alarms for the same peer path being down. The criteria for which peerPath state changes can trigger peer path events has been tightened.
------
- **I95-50260 `show idp events` does not respect the `router` or `node` arguments:** Resolved an issue where `show idp events` did not respect the `router` and `node` arguments and always executed against the local node. The command is now executed correctly, using the specified arguments.
------
- **I95-50262 Unconnected routers not rotating logs often enough:** Resolved an issue where a managed router was not able to pull down the configuration from the Conductor - which includes the log rotation config. The default salt log rotation configuration has been improved, preventing the log from growing too large before the connection to the Conductor can be established. 
------
- **I95-50269 Router clone operation fails:** Implemented checks to prevent cloning obsolete elements and internal lists/containers on legacy versions of the SSR software (pre-4.4).
------
- **I95-50331 System fails to synchronize keys on startup:** The SSR now dynamically updates srsync IP host address from the non forwarding HA sync interfaces, and will fall back to the global.init host IPs if they don't exist.
------
- **I95-50376 Failure to make config changes after rollback:** Resolved an issue where commits would not take effect after rolling back an HA router, because of older/newer version conflicts. 

### Caveats (Please advise if this is still necessary for 6.1)

- **I95-45348: Update salt master and minion to 3002.8:** When upgrading an HA pair to version **5.5.1**, please be aware of the following: While updating the conductors in an HA pair, the upgraded conductor node asset state will remain DISCONNECTED if the active `automatedProvisioner` is not running a corrected version (see table below). When performing an HA conductor upgrade the node running the oldest software assumes leadership. However, the older version will not be able to talk to the new software on the upgraded conductor. 
  
The active `automatedProvisioner` can be determined by running the command `show system processes`. Once the upgrade begins on the old node, the newly upgraded conductor takes over.

