---
title: SSR Chassis Manager
sidebar_label: SSR Chassis Manager
---

The SSR400 and SSR440 support an integrated chassis manager to help identify device operations, connectivity, temperature, and provide insight into other vital operating data. 

Chassis Manager and Chassis Monitor provide details and insight into the operation of the SSR4x0.

Chassis Monitor is part of the Node Monitor feature. 

## Chassis Manager

The Chassis Manager requires admin priviledges to see, set, interact. Components include the LED Manager and Temperature manager. 

### LED Manager

The LED Manager is responsible for translating status updates from different components in the SSR into what the resulting status code should be, so the correct status can be displayed on the Status LED

The system LED will display the following colors to report system state:

- Red: No service
- Amber/purple: Degraded Service
- Green: System is healthy

### Temperature Manager

There are three temperature thresholds specified for each sensor, and the threshold is lowered in the event of a bad fan in the chassis:
1.	Yellow: we generate a MAJOR alarm warning of high temperatures, but take no preventative action.
2.	Red: we generate a CRITICAL alarm warning of impending `critical temperature reached` shutdown, and will throttle the CPU to reduce heat generation.
3.	Fire: we blast a fatal log that we are performing a `critical temperature reached` shutdown, and then immediately shut the SSR down to prevent any damage to the hardware.

The Temperature Manager is responsible for identifying the Yellow and Red temperature alarms, so we can log the event. The alarms are not generated by the Temperature Manager, 

Temperature Manager will not actually perform the `critical temperature reached` shutdown, as the Linux kernel will trigger a graceful shutdown based on the configured critical temp threshold. The Temperature Manager is also responsible for managing the fan speeds for the Leopard Models that will have fans. 

minimum fan speed should be 20% of the RPM maximum, to prevent dust from settling on the internal components.

If the fan control logic was bugged and the Chassis Manager needed an out-of-band update, we would not want systems to overheat and shutdown in the meantime. In this scenario, the failsafe config file could be edited to kick the fans into high gear and prevent the equipment from overheating.

### CLI Commands

The following `show` commands have been added, allowing you to see status from the CLI.

| CLI Command | Function |
| --- | --- |
| `show chassis led` | Shows the current LED states on the chassis. This will include the color, pattern, and description. |
| `show chassis led system` | Status of the system LED |
| `show chassis led port <number>` | Status of a specific port number |
| `show chassis environment` | Shows the current temperatures, fan speeds, and temperature thresholds. |
| `show chassis environment fans`	| Shows the current fan speeds, along with their settings. |
| `show chassis environment temperature` | Shows all current ambient and CPU temperatures using lm_sensors and sysfs, respectively. |
| `show chassis environment temperature sensor <id>` | Shows current temperatures for the specified sensor. |
| `show chassis environment temperature-threshold` | Lists the thresholds to trigger the Yellow alarm, Red alarm, and Fire Shutdown. |
| `show chassis environment temperature-threshold sensor <id>` | Lists the thresholds to trigger the Yellow alarm, Red alarm, and Fire Shutdown for the specified sensor. |
| `show chassis power` | Shows current PSU voltages and amperage levels. |
| `show chassis power component <id>`	| Shows current PSU voltages and amperage levels for the specified PSU id. |
| `show chassis hardware`	| Reports the hardware SKU, CLEI, revision (rev), and serial numbers from `/sys/kernel/leopard_idprom`. |
| `show chassis firmware`	| Shows CPLD and boot firmware versions from `/sys/kernel/leopard_cpld/version` and `/sys/devices/virtual/dmi/id/bios_version`, respectively. |


## Chassis Monitor

The Chassis Monitor will gather the temperature readings, temperature thresholds, fan speed, LED pattern, etc available through the software and provide this information in the SSR Web Interface (?) 

How is this information made visible to the user?




